Long ago, I was just like you.
Whatever do you mean?
For so many eons,
I could never bring myself
to believe in miracles.
For however many worlds
we might live through.
And for all the blessings
we may be granted.
I still knew that we existed
at the mercy of fate,
a power we could
never hope to overcome.
And so I allowed
myself no expectations.
I knew that in the end,
they would only be betrayed.
I refused to hope for a miracle
because miracles were a fantasy.
But I learned.
Keiichi and Rena
and Mion and Shion,
and Satoko let me see the
truth, and soon, you'll know!
Miracles aren't born from
chance but from our own will!
This has grown tiresome.
The entire charade
has become tedious.
Hmph.
You would cause me to
relapse into my boredom.
[SATOKO]
Fine, you win.
Don't hesitate.
Erase me from your world
and be done with it.
Everything would work
out fine for you.
You'll have no
trouble fitting in
with the well‐bred young ladies
of St. Lucia Academy.
That doesn't sound bad at all.
Heh.
But once you're living
in that world without me,
you'll realize something.
That you were always
happiest here in Hinamizawa.
And that I was the one
who cared about you
more than anybody!
How the hell could you
think I don't know that?
[RIKA] You always cared for
me just like I cared for you.
More... than anybody
for years and years!
Did you think I'd forgotten?
How could I? You idiot!
Don't you dare tell me
I would have a happy life
in a world without you!
Do you really think
I would erase you?
I couldn't do it if I tried!
But I'll beat you
till your face is red
and your eyes swell shut!
I'll stamp all those practice
problems into your brain
with my fists,
until you can rattle off
every single formula
from memory!
[SATOKO screams]
No, no, no, no, no!
I don't want to!
I'm not studying anymore!
I hate studying!
I never wanna see another book!
I don't even wanna
think about them!
I wanna keep
goofing off forever!
Together with you!
Why won't you stop acting
like such a stupid,
selfish little monster already?
Me? When are you
gonna stop trying
to drag me off
to your dumb school?
[RIKA]
You're so stupid, Satoko!
[SATOKO]
Why won't you get it, Rika?
Oh?
Hmm?
What are you doing now?
No miracle will ever
take your side.
The question I asked
was what you were doing.
[HANYUU]
If a hundred times,
we plunge into the
depths of despair,
we climb out two hundred.
If the tide of tragedy takes
us a thousand times,
then two thousand times,
we pull free!
Because we have faith
that when a miracle comes,
it will side with us!
[gasps]
Huh?!
We'll defeat fate.
Rika and I will
reclaim our future!
We will bring about
the miracle that we need!
[laughs]
How many endless days
did we fight to get here?
[RIKA]
Me and Rika.
And Keiichi and Rena.
[RIKA]
And Mion and Shion.
All the people of Hinamizawa.
[RIKA]
Satoko, too.
[RIKA] They're far
stronger than you realize!
[laughs]
You've recaptured
my interest, dear failure!
Such a fine performance
is deserving of a reward!
[laughs]
Strike true, Onigari‐no‐Ryuuou!
And devour her sins,
right down to the last!
[EUA laughs]
The unimaginable
impudence of you!
You swore that you would concede
if I showed you a miracle.
You will not interfere
with this world again!
Now, begone!
[EUA giggles]
Begone I shall.
You are the failure I knew
you to be, but nonetheless,
you were miraculously able
to strike back against me!
[giggles]
[cackles]
You never gave a single thought
to following my dream, did you?
Stay in Hinamizawa.
We could be together forever!
I refuse. I won't
give up on my dream!
We're getting into
St. Lucia together!
[SATOKO]
Well, I always dreamed of a life
with you here in Hinamizawa,
and I'm not giving that up!
All I want is to be
with you forever, Satoko!
And all I want is to be
with you forever, Rika!
I want to take you
with me to St. Lucia!
I don't want to go,
and I don't wanna let you go!
Satoko!
Rika!
Satoko, you with me?
I'm listening.
I'm sorry I left you all by
your lonesome at St. Lucia.
We'll try again.
I won't let you out of my sight,
and I can help you study
as much as you need.
I'm so happy to hear that.
Apology accepted, Rika.
I lost count of how many years
it took to get it out of you,
but in the end, I suppose I can
say it was worth the trouble.
[SATOKO]
Though I'm sorry to tell you.
I'm honestly just
not smart enough.
You're never going to get me
to study that hard again,
no matter how hard you may try.
[RIKA]
I figured.
How many years
did I make you study
for that entrance exam, anyway?
[SATOKO]
I could hardly guess.
Think of the biggest
number you can
and multiply it by three.
That might be somewhere close.
[RIKA] Looping lives can develop
something like allergies.
You keep reliving
the same troubles
till even seeing them makes
you break out in hives.
[SATOKO] I really did
believe I would be able
to stay in the main class
with you if I gave it
my best effort.
Otherwise,
I couldn't have made myself
keep trying so hard for so long.
[RIKA] So you studied
as hard as you could
and you still got
terrible grades.
Maybe you really weren't
cut out for that curriculum.
Goodness, who could
have imagined it.
[MION]
Hey! They're on the riverbank!
[RENA]
Keiichi! We finally found them.
They're over here!
[KEIICHI] What the heck
have they been doing?
Whoa! Okay,
what's going on, you two?
What happened to your clothes?
[MION]
And what happened to your faces?
Oh my gosh!
Hey, do we have some
bandages in the car?
Do we?
While I appreciate your concern
I can assure you,
Rika's punches aren't
nearly enough to hurt me.
They were enough
to make you cry,
but I suppose we don't
need to talk about that.
Don't we?
Your eyes are at
least as red as mine.
Okay, kids.
That's enough of that.
What made you get into
a full‐on fist fight?
That's so not like you.
‐‐Hmph!
[KEIICHI] I'm glad we came
to pick you guys up.
So, what were you
two fighting about?
Ol' Uncle Mion is here to help!
Come on, you can share
these things with your friends.
They're fine.
Whatever it is was
between the two of them,
and I'm sure
they talked it over.
They don't need to
tell us what it was about
if they don't want to.
Jeez. You're way
too good at this, Rena.
You two okay?
"Okay" would be a stretch.
It'll be hard to think of
each other as friends, now.
My thoughts exactly.
[RENA]
Here's something to consider.
Even twins don't have to do
everything together
forever, right?
But they'll always
remember their time together
and those memories
will always be precious.
Even as they go
their separate ways,
they'll still have that
connection to each other.
Yeah, that's true.
Families and friends
grow apart in time, but still,
that doesn't make those
relationships any less valuable.
[KEIICHI] They're right and
if I could add something.
When I call someone a friend,
what am I really
saying about them?
It's not that
we're always together,
and honestly, it might be hard
to stay friends if we were.
But whenever we do
see each other again,
no matter how long it's been,
or what's happened
since last time,
we'll both know that we still
share that connection.
If you ask me, "friendship"
is just a word for that bond.
That's all.
But that bond shouldn't mean
the two of you are
shackled together.
If you're worried
your friendship
is gonna fall apart just 'cause
you're not in the same place,
you might have the wrong
idea about friendship.
Huh?
How are you
this morning, Keiichi?
You're still showing up early!
You're allowed to sleep in
once in a while, you know?
But I guess you don't
plan on ever doing it.
I couldn't sleep in. Not today!
Morning, guys! Good to see you!
And on time, for once!
I don't think I could've
forgiven myself
if we'd shown up late
and missed the big event.
Right?
We have to see our friend off
on her big journey today!
Give it everything you've got.
You'll be representing
Hinamizawa.
So, keep up
that club spirit, okay!
You can do anything you
set your mind to.
That's coming from the first and
second presidents of the club!
Awooo!
You're so cute in
that St. Lucia uniform
I can barely stand it!
I wanna take you home with me!
Mii. But then
I couldn't catch my train.
[PA] Thank you for choosing the
Shinkansen for your trip today.
The 12:52 Hikari bound for Tokyo
is arriving on
track number 15.
Please stand behind the yellow
line until boarding commences.
We appreciate your cooperation.
Well, this is it.
Goodbye for now, everyone.
Jeez! Where the heck
were you, Satoko?
She'll gonna be gone
for three years, you know.
Or, I mean, however
long she takes to graduate.
Hey, let go!
Shion asked me to pass on
a message before she leaves!
[KEIICHI]
Enough.
[RENA]
Let them say their goodbyes!
[MION]
But you guys!
[RENA]
Let's go, Mion.
So, this is goodbye.
I hope you enjoy it, living
life all by your lonesome.
All by my lonesome?
What about the well‐bred
young ladies you mentioned?
You said I'd fit right in.
Oh, you'll be
everyone's favorite
from the moment
you set foot on campus,
and I couldn't be
happier for you.
Thank you, however, it won't be
the same as having you there.
I know, and it won't be
the same without you here.
In this universe, we alone
lead eternal existences,
living in endless loops.
We'll live forever but forever
is too long to be together,
so we have to spend time apart.
To keep us from growing
sick of one another.
To make sure that the bonds
of our friendship will endure.
[SATOKO]
But if that time apart
should go on too
long for my liking,
I'm always going
to come after you.
If you come after me,
I'm going to run away.
And whenever you stop running,
I will be there.
[RIKA]
If you go north, I'll go south.
If you go east, I'll go west.
[RIKA]
And we'll meet again.
[SATOKO]
Sooner than we think.
We'll meet when
something else cries.
Is that...?
Well, ladies. Have a good year.
Huh? It's good to see you
two made your way back!
[SATOSHI]
What? Where am I? Satoko?
[TEPPEI]
Hey! Satoko!
Huh?
Check it out, kiddo!
They had a killer deal
goin' on this meat,
so I got us all loaded up!
Why so much?
[TEPPEI] 'Cause I needed
enough meat to balance out
all the veggies I picked up
on sale, you know?
I figured you and I
could have ourselves
a sukiyaki party tonight!
[sighs]
Well, I'm not in much of
a mood to celebrate right‐‐
Hi! Your Nee‐nee
is here to see you!
Shion, that's not "seeing."
I was so hoping to see little
miss Rika off at the station.
How could mean old Uncle Yoshiro
make me work that shift?
Why, hello there, Uncle Teppei.
Surely you didn't buy all this
food just for the two of you?
[laughs]
We'd be happy to have
you come help us out!
This simply isn't for me.
I'll be coming after you
sooner than I thought, Rika.
You can come back now,
Satoko Hojo.
I'll return yourself to you.
What's that about?
Oh, my, I do hope
you're feeling okay.
[chortles]
I've never felt better!
And actually, I think a sukiyaki
party is just what I need!
Though I'll warn you,
I can get to the good bits
before you've got a
grip on your chopsticks.
We'll have way too many
good bits for that!
What'd ya think I bought
all this meat for, anyway?
I see.
You figured out an effective
counterplay, Uncle!
[laughs]
What can I say, kid,
ya trained me good!
Your uncle's gotten to be
a master bargain hunter!
But that still won't
be nearly enough people.
Why don't we invite
Kei and Rena, as well?
And obviously,
I could call my sister.
You could hardly
have better timing.
Hey, Keiichi! Mion! Rena!
Over here, guys!
[MION]
Damn, that's a lot of food!